CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# 🤝 Contributing to Guardon

**Help make Kubernetes security accessible to every developer!**

Thanks for your interest in contributing! Guardon is built by developers, for developers, and we welcome contributions from security experts, frontend developers, extension enthusiasts, and Kubernetes newcomers alike.

## 🌟 Why Contribute?

- **🚀 Impact thousands of developers** — Guardon helps teams catch security issues before they hit production
- **🔧 Learn cutting-edge tech** — Work with Chrome extensions, Kubernetes YAML parsing, and security tooling
- **🏆 Build your portfolio** — Contribute to a project that solves real-world security problems
- **👥 Join a welcoming community** — We mentor new contributors and celebrate every contribution
- **📈 Level up your skills** — From beginner-friendly issues to advanced features, grow at your own pace

## 🎯 How Your Contributions Make a Difference

Every contribution helps developers worldwide write more secure Kubernetes manifests:
- **New security rules** → Prevent production incidents
- **UX improvements** → Make security checks effortless  
- **Bug fixes** → Keep the extension reliable
- **Documentation** → Help others contribute and use Guardon effectively

## 🚀 Quick Start for Contributors

**New to the project?** Here's how to get started in 5 minutes:

1. **🍴 Fork the repository** and clone it locally
2. **🔧 Load the extension** in Chrome (`chrome://extensions` → Developer mode → Load unpacked)
3. **🧪 Run tests** with `npm install && npm test`
4. **🎯 Pick an issue** from our [good first issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/labels/good-first-issue)

**Feeling ambitious?** Check out our [Contributing Issues Guide](./CONTRIBUTING_ISSUES.md) for 10 ready-to-tackle issues!

## 🏷️ Find Your Perfect Issue

| 🟢 **Beginner** | 🟡 **Intermediate** | 🔴 **Advanced** |
|-----------------|---------------------|-----------------|
| Add security rules | Refactor components | Build integrations |
| Fix documentation | Improve UX/UI | Add platform support |
| Write tests | Performance optimization | Architecture changes |

**🎁 Bonus:** First-time contributors get a special mention in our release notes!

## 🐛 How to File Outstanding Bug Reports

**Great bug reports save everyone time!** Include:

- **🎯 Clear reproduction steps** — Help us reproduce the issue quickly
- **📱 Environment details** — Browser version, OS, extension version  
- **📋 YAML examples** — Minimal examples that trigger the bug
- **🔍 Console logs** — Open DevTools for the popup and paste relevant errors
- **💡 Expected vs actual behavior** — What should have happened?

**💎 Pro tip:** Screenshots and GIFs make bug reports incredibly helpful!

## 💡 Feature Requests That Get Built

We love feature requests that:

- **📊 Include user research** — How many users would benefit?
- **🔧 Propose solutions** — Not just problems, but ideas for solving them
- **🎨 Include mockups** — Visual ideas help us understand your vision
- **⚡ Focus on impact** — How does this make Guardon better for everyone?

**🌟 Most requested features:**
- VS Code integration
- GitLab/Bitbucket support  
- Custom rule templates
- Performance monitoring

## 🛠️ Development Workflow (Streamlined!)

```bash
# 1. Get the code
git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/guardon.git
cd guardon

# 2. Create your feature branch  
git checkout -b feature/amazing-new-feature

# 3. Set up development environment
npm install                    # Install test dependencies
# Load extension in chrome://extensions (Developer mode → Load unpacked)

# 4. Make your changes and test
npm test                      # Run unit tests
# Test manually in browser

# 5. Commit with DCO sign-off
git commit -s -m "feat: add amazing new feature"

# 6. Push and create PR
git push origin feature/amazing-new-feature
```

**🎯 Development tips:**
- **Hot reload**: Changes to popup/options reload automatically
- **Debugging**: Right-click extension icon → "Inspect popup" for DevTools
- **Testing**: Focus on `src/utils/` modules where most logic lives

## Code Quality and Linting

Guardon uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) to check for code quality errors and common mistakes in all JavaScript files. Please run ESLint before submitting a pull request:

```
npx eslint .
```

All major changes should include new or updated tests. See the ROADMAP.md for our commitment to test coverage.

## Warning Policy

Guardon is committed to addressing all warnings identified by ESLint and other code quality tools. Contributors should:
- Fix all warnings where possible.
- If a warning is a false positive, mark it in the source code with a comment (e.g., `// eslint-disable-next-line` with an explanation).
- Strive for zero warnings, but the project may accept a small number (less than 1 per 100 lines or less than 10 total) if justified.

All pull requests are reviewed for warnings, and maintainers may request fixes or clarifications before merging.

## Warning Strictness

Guardon strives to enable the strictest practical warning flags in ESLint and other code quality tools. We regularly review and update our linting configuration to catch as many issues as possible early in development. Contributors are encouraged to propose stricter rules or additional checks if they help improve code quality and maintainability.

## 🏆 Pull Request Excellence

**What makes a PR mergeable:**

✅ **The Good Stuff:**
- 🎯 **Focused scope** — One feature/fix per PR
- 🧪 **Tests included** — Cover new behavior and edge cases  
- 📝 **Clear description** — What, why, and how
- 💬 **Descriptive commits** — Future you will thank present you
- 🔍 **Self-review** — Check your own code first

✅ **Bonus points:**
- 📚 **Documentation updates** if you change user-facing behavior
- 🖼️ **Screenshots/GIFs** for UI changes
- ⚡ **Performance considerations** noted
- 🛡️ **Security implications** addressed

**🚀 Fast-track to approval:**
- Reference the issue you're fixing
- Add "Fixes #123" to auto-close issues
- Keep PRs under 400 lines when possible
- Respond to feedback promptly

**⏱️ Review timeline:** We aim to review PRs within 2-3 business days!

## ✍️ Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

**TL;DR:** Add `-s` to your git commits to certify you have the right to contribute.

```bash
git commit -s -m "feat: awesome new security rule"
```

This project uses the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) to ensure all contributions are properly licensed. By adding the sign-off, you certify:

- ✅ You wrote the code or have the right to submit it
- ✅ You understand it will be distributed under the Apache 2.0 license
- ✅ You're not introducing any legal issues

**Need help with DCO?** Open an issue and we'll guide you through it!

## 🧪 Testing Made Easy

**Run the full test suite:**
```bash
npm install    # One-time setup
npm test       # Run all tests with coverage
```

**Testing philosophy:**
- 🎯 **Focus on utilities** — Most tests are in `src/utils/` modules
- 🔧 **Test behavior, not implementation** — What should happen, not how
- 🐛 **Cover edge cases** — Malformed YAML, missing fields, etc.
- 📊 **Maintain coverage** — Aim for >80% on new code

**Need help with tests?** Check out `tests/rulesEngine.test.js` for examples!

## 🎨 Repository Assets & Documentation

**Architecture diagrams:**
- Edit `assets/architecture-diagram.svg` for conceptual changes
- PNG is auto-generated from SVG via GitHub Actions
- Include updated diagrams in PRs when changing architecture

**Documentation updates:**
- 📝 README changes for user-facing features
- 🔧 Update copilot-instructions.md for new development patterns
- 📚 Add JSDoc comments for complex functions

## 🌈 Community & Recognition

### 🏅 Contributor Badges & Achievements

**Earn recognition for your contributions! We celebrate every milestone:**

| Badge | Achievement | How to Earn |
|-------|------------|-------------|
| � **First Timer** | Your first merged PR | Submit and get your first pull request merged |
| 🐛 **Bug Hunter** | Fixed a confirmed bug | Submit a PR that fixes a reported bug |
| 🔒 **Security Champion** | Added security rules | Contribute new security rules or improve existing ones |
| 🎨 **UX Enhancer** | Improved user experience | Make UI/UX improvements that users love |
| 🧪 **Test Master** | Boosted test coverage | Add comprehensive tests that improve coverage |
| 📚 **Documentation Hero** | Enhanced documentation | Improve docs, guides, or help materials |
| 🤖 **AI Pioneer** | Built AI features | Contribute to AI-powered functionality |
| 🏗️ **Architecture Architect** | Made structural improvements | Refactor code or improve system design |
| 💎 **Code Quality Guardian** | Improved code standards | Add linting, formatting, or quality improvements |
| 🚀 **Performance Optimizer** | Enhanced performance | Make measurable performance improvements |
| 🌍 **Platform Expander** | Added platform support | Extend support to new platforms (GitLab, VS Code, etc.) |
| 👑 **Top Contributor** | 10+ merged PRs | Achieve 10 or more merged contributions |

**🎖️ Special Recognition:**
- **⭐ Monthly MVP**: Most impactful contributor each month
- **🏆 Annual Champion**: Outstanding contributions throughout the year
- **🎯 Problem Solver**: Tackle and solve complex, long-standing issues
- **🧑‍🏫 Mentor**: Help guide and support new contributors

### 🎁 **Contributor Rewards**

**📜 GitHub Profile Features:**
- ✅ **README Hall of Fame** with your GitHub profile and contributions
- 🔗 **Personal project links** in our contributor showcase
- 📊 **Contribution stats** highlighting your impact

**📢 Social Media Shoutouts:**
- 🐦 **Twitter features** celebrating your contributions
- 💼 **LinkedIn endorsements** for your open source work
- 📝 **Blog post features** about significant contributions

**🎯 Career Benefits:**
- 📋 **Recommendation letters** for outstanding contributors
- 🗣️ **Conference talk opportunities** about your Guardon work
- 🤝 **Professional references** from project maintainers
- 🎤 **Podcast appearances** discussing your contributions

**🏢 Maintainer Track:**
- 👥 **Maintainer nomination** for consistent, high-quality contributions
- 🔑 **Repository access** and decision-making responsibilities
- 🎯 **Project direction input** on roadmap and feature priorities
- 📅 **Community leadership** opportunities

**🎁 Bonus perks:**
- 🏆 **Release notes mention** — Credit in release announcements  
- 📝 **Release notes mention** — Credit in release announcements  
- 🎁 **Maintainer nomination** — Active contributors can become maintainers
- 📢 **Social media shoutouts** — We love promoting our contributors!

**💬 Get support:**
- 💭 [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/discussions) for questions
- 🐛 [Issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/issues) for bugs and features
- 📧 Email maintainers for security issues

**📜 Code of Conduct:**
We're committed to a welcoming, inclusive community. Please read our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) — we take it seriously and appreciate contributors who do too.

---

## 🚀 Ready to Contribute?

1. **⭐ Star the repo** if you haven't already
2. **🔍 Browse [good first issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/labels/good-first-issue)**
3. **💬 Comment on an issue** to claim it
4. **🛠️ Start coding** and make Kubernetes security better for everyone!

**Questions?** Don't hesitate to ask — we're here to help you succeed! 🎯

Commit message:

adding automation to linting and updating md file accordingly

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# 🤝 Contributing to Guardon

**Help make Kubernetes security accessible to every developer!**

Thanks for your interest in contributing! Guardon is built by developers, for developers, and we welcome contributions from security experts, frontend developers, extension enthusiasts, and Kubernetes newcomers alike.

## 🌟 Why Contribute?

- **🚀 Impact thousands of developers** — Guardon helps teams catch security issues before they hit production
- **🔧 Learn cutting-edge tech** — Work with Chrome extensions, Kubernetes YAML parsing, and security tooling
- **🏆 Build your portfolio** — Contribute to a project that solves real-world security problems
- **👥 Join a welcoming community** — We mentor new contributors and celebrate every contribution
- **📈 Level up your skills** — From beginner-friendly issues to advanced features, grow at your own pace

## 🎯 How Your Contributions Make a Difference

Every contribution helps developers worldwide write more secure Kubernetes manifests:
- **New security rules** → Prevent production incidents
- **UX improvements** → Make security checks effortless  
- **Bug fixes** → Keep the extension reliable
- **Documentation** → Help others contribute and use Guardon effectively

## 🚀 Quick Start for Contributors

**New to the project?** Here's how to get started in 5 minutes:

1. **🍴 Fork the repository** and clone it locally
2. **🔧 Load the extension** in Chrome (`chrome://extensions` → Developer mode → Load unpacked)
3. **🧪 Run tests** with `npm install && npm test`
4. **🎯 Pick an issue** from our [good first issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/labels/good-first-issue)

**Feeling ambitious?** Check out our [Contributing Issues Guide](./CONTRIBUTING_ISSUES.md) for 10 ready-to-tackle issues!

## 🏷️ Find Your Perfect Issue

| 🟢 **Beginner** | 🟡 **Intermediate** | 🔴 **Advanced** |
|-----------------|---------------------|-----------------|
| Add security rules | Refactor components | Build integrations |
| Fix documentation | Improve UX/UI | Add platform support |
| Write tests | Performance optimization | Architecture changes |

**🎁 Bonus:** First-time contributors get a special mention in our release notes!

## 🐛 How to File Outstanding Bug Reports

**Great bug reports save everyone time!** Include:

- **🎯 Clear reproduction steps** — Help us reproduce the issue quickly
- **📱 Environment details** — Browser version, OS, extension version  
- **📋 YAML examples** — Minimal examples that trigger the bug
- **🔍 Console logs** — Open DevTools for the popup and paste relevant errors
- **💡 Expected vs actual behavior** — What should have happened?

**💎 Pro tip:** Screenshots and GIFs make bug reports incredibly helpful!

## 💡 Feature Requests That Get Built

We love feature requests that:

- **📊 Include user research** — How many users would benefit?
- **🔧 Propose solutions** — Not just problems, but ideas for solving them
- **🎨 Include mockups** — Visual ideas help us understand your vision
- **⚡ Focus on impact** — How does this make Guardon better for everyone?

**🌟 Most requested features:**
- VS Code integration
- GitLab/Bitbucket support  
- Custom rule templates
- Performance monitoring

## 🛠️ Development Workflow (Streamlined!)

```bash
# 1. Get the code
git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/guardon.git
cd guardon

# 2. Create your feature branch  
git checkout -b feature/amazing-new-feature

# 3. Set up development environment
npm install                    # Install test dependencies
# Load extension in chrome://extensions (Developer mode → Load unpacked)

# 4. Make your changes and test
npm test                      # Run unit tests
# Test manually in browser

# 5. Commit with DCO sign-off
git commit -s -m "feat: add amazing new feature"

# 6. Push and create PR
git push origin feature/amazing-new-feature
```

**🎯 Development tips:**
- **Hot reload**: Changes to popup/options reload automatically
- **Debugging**: Right-click extension icon → "Inspect popup" for DevTools
- **Testing**: Focus on `src/utils/` modules where most logic lives

## Code Quality and Linting

Guardon uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) to check for code quality errors and common mistakes in all JavaScript files. Please run ESLint before submitting a pull request:

```
npx eslint .
```

All major changes should include new or updated tests. See the ROADMAP.md for our commitment to test coverage.

## Static Code Analysis

Guardon applies static code analysis to all major production releases using [ESLint](https://eslint.org/), a FLOSS tool for JavaScript. All code must pass ESLint checks before release. Contributors are required to run ESLint and address any issues before submitting changes.

## Continuous Static Analysis

It is suggested that static source code analysis (ESLint) be run on every commit or at least daily. This can be automated using continuous integration (CI) tools such as GitHub Actions, so that code quality and security issues are detected as early as possible.

## Warning Policy

Guardon is committed to addressing all warnings identified by ESLint and other code quality tools. Contributors should:
- Fix all warnings where possible.
- If a warning is a false positive, mark it in the source code with a comment (e.g., `// eslint-disable-next-line` with an explanation).
- Strive for zero warnings, but the project may accept a small number (less than 1 per 100 lines or less than 10 total) if justified.

All pull requests are reviewed for warnings, and maintainers may request fixes or clarifications before merging.

## Warning Strictness

Guardon strives to enable the strictest practical warning flags in ESLint and other code quality tools. We regularly review and update our linting configuration to catch as many issues as possible early in development. Contributors are encouraged to propose stricter rules or additional checks if they help improve code quality and maintainability.

## Automated Linting with GitHub Actions

All pushes and pull requests to the `main` branch automatically trigger a GitHub Actions workflow that runs ESLint on the codebase. This ensures that static analysis and code quality checks are continuously enforced. Please make sure your code passes ESLint locally before submitting a pull request to avoid CI failures.

## 🏆 Pull Request Excellence

**What makes a PR mergeable:**

✅ **The Good Stuff:**
- 🎯 **Focused scope** — One feature/fix per PR
- 🧪 **Tests included** — Cover new behavior and edge cases  
- 📝 **Clear description** — What, why, and how
- 💬 **Descriptive commits** — Future you will thank present you
- 🔍 **Self-review** — Check your own code first

✅ **Bonus points:**
- 📚 **Documentation updates** if you change user-facing behavior
- 🖼️ **Screenshots/GIFs** for UI changes
- ⚡ **Performance considerations** noted
- 🛡️ **Security implications** addressed

**🚀 Fast-track to approval:**
- Reference the issue you're fixing
- Add "Fixes #123" to auto-close issues
- Keep PRs under 400 lines when possible
- Respond to feedback promptly

**⏱️ Review timeline:** We aim to review PRs within 2-3 business days!

## ✍️ Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

**TL;DR:** Add `-s` to your git commits to certify you have the right to contribute.

```bash
git commit -s -m "feat: awesome new security rule"
```

This project uses the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) to ensure all contributions are properly licensed. By adding the sign-off, you certify:

- ✅ You wrote the code or have the right to submit it
- ✅ You understand it will be distributed under the Apache 2.0 license
- ✅ You're not introducing any legal issues

**Need help with DCO?** Open an issue and we'll guide you through it!

## 🧪 Testing Made Easy

**Run the full test suite:**
```bash
npm install    # One-time setup
npm test       # Run all tests with coverage
```

**Testing philosophy:**
- 🎯 **Focus on utilities** — Most tests are in `src/utils/` modules
- 🔧 **Test behavior, not implementation** — What should happen, not how
- 🐛 **Cover edge cases** — Malformed YAML, missing fields, etc.
- 📊 **Maintain coverage** — Aim for >80% on new code

**Need help with tests?** Check out `tests/rulesEngine.test.js` for examples!

## 🎨 Repository Assets & Documentation

**Architecture diagrams:**
- Edit `assets/architecture-diagram.svg` for conceptual changes
- PNG is auto-generated from SVG via GitHub Actions
- Include updated diagrams in PRs when changing architecture

**Documentation updates:**
- 📝 README changes for user-facing features
- 🔧 Update copilot-instructions.md for new development patterns
- 📚 Add JSDoc comments for complex functions

## 🌈 Community & Recognition

### 🏅 Contributor Badges & Achievements

**Earn recognition for your contributions! We celebrate every milestone:**

| Badge | Achievement | How to Earn |
|-------|------------|-------------|
| � **First Timer** | Your first merged PR | Submit and get your first pull request merged |
| 🐛 **Bug Hunter** | Fixed a confirmed bug | Submit a PR that fixes a reported bug |
| 🔒 **Security Champion** | Added security rules | Contribute new security rules or improve existing ones |
| 🎨 **UX Enhancer** | Improved user experience | Make UI/UX improvements that users love |
| 🧪 **Test Master** | Boosted test coverage | Add comprehensive tests that improve coverage |
| 📚 **Documentation Hero** | Enhanced documentation | Improve docs, guides, or help materials |
| 🤖 **AI Pioneer** | Built AI features | Contribute to AI-powered functionality |
| 🏗️ **Architecture Architect** | Made structural improvements | Refactor code or improve system design |
| 💎 **Code Quality Guardian** | Improved code standards | Add linting, formatting, or quality improvements |
| 🚀 **Performance Optimizer** | Enhanced performance | Make measurable performance improvements |
| 🌍 **Platform Expander** | Added platform support | Extend support to new platforms (GitLab, VS Code, etc.) |
| 👑 **Top Contributor** | 10+ merged PRs | Achieve 10 or more merged contributions |

**🎖️ Special Recognition:**
- **⭐ Monthly MVP**: Most impactful contributor each month
- **🏆 Annual Champion**: Outstanding contributions throughout the year
- **🎯 Problem Solver**: Tackle and solve complex, long-standing issues
- **🧑‍🏫 Mentor**: Help guide and support new contributors

### 🎁 **Contributor Rewards**

**📜 GitHub Profile Features:**
- ✅ **README Hall of Fame** with your GitHub profile and contributions
- 🔗 **Personal project links** in our contributor showcase
- 📊 **Contribution stats** highlighting your impact

**📢 Social Media Shoutouts:**
- 🐦 **Twitter features** celebrating your contributions
- 💼 **LinkedIn endorsements** for your open source work
- 📝 **Blog post features** about significant contributions

**🎯 Career Benefits:**
- 📋 **Recommendation letters** for outstanding contributors
- 🗣️ **Conference talk opportunities** about your Guardon work
- 🤝 **Professional references** from project maintainers
- 🎤 **Podcast appearances** discussing your contributions

**🏢 Maintainer Track:**
- 👥 **Maintainer nomination** for consistent, high-quality contributions
- 🔑 **Repository access** and decision-making responsibilities
- 🎯 **Project direction input** on roadmap and feature priorities
- 📅 **Community leadership** opportunities

**🎁 Bonus perks:**
- 🏆 **Release notes mention** — Credit in release announcements  
- 📝 **Release notes mention** — Credit in release announcements  
- 🎁 **Maintainer nomination** — Active contributors can become maintainers
- 📢 **Social media shoutouts** — We love promoting our contributors!

**💬 Get support:**
- 💭 [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/discussions) for questions
- 🐛 [Issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/issues) for bugs and features
- 📧 Email maintainers for security issues

**📜 Code of Conduct:**
We're committed to a welcoming, inclusive community. Please read our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) — we take it seriously and appreciate contributors who do too.

---

## 🚀 Ready to Contribute?

1. **⭐ Star the repo** if you haven't already
2. **🔍 Browse [good first issues](https://github.com/guardon-dev/guardon/labels/good-first-issue)**
3. **💬 Comment on an issue** to claim it
4. **🛠️ Start coding** and make Kubernetes security better for everyone!

**Questions?** Don't hesitate to ask — we're here to help you succeed! 🎯
